Okay, so we want to get into
some more relational data.
So far, we've just been talking about
users, which is like that one table.
But we're gonna be adding actually
technically three more tables to look at,
but we're gonna be talking
about just two of them.
We're gonna be talking about
comments from users, and
then the boards that those users
are posting comments to, right?
So that's kind of
the hierarchy of our data.
We have message boards, on those
message boards will be comments and
those comments will be posted by users.
When I'm talking about
a relational database,
this is exactly what I'm talking about.
This data relates to this one,
that relates to this one.
So a big key and how you kind of establish
these relationships between these various
different tables and
records in these tables is through
a mechanism called foreign keys.
When I say foreign, it just means this key
refers to something in a foreign table,
right a different table.
That's what the foreign means
in that particular case.
They contains data that
lives in another table.
This first table here, you should
recognize, this CREATE TABLE users.
By the way,
these queries have already been run,
you don't have to run this again.
This run is part of your big
query that you ran previously.
But we have this user table this
contains all the information about
the individual user.
We also created a boards table which
has a board_id, a board_name, and
a board_description.
Nothing here looks very surprising.
There is nothing new about this that
we didn't already learn about users.
But comments,
this contains some interesting things,
let's kind of dig into this a little bit.
As a comment_id that's a serial_id,
that's more we are aware of that,
the GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY.
The second thing that's interesting is a
comment is always posted by a user, right?
So if you are thinking about
a Reddit message, right?
A Reddit user posts to Reddit message,
those two things are linked, right?
They're inexorably linked that you
must have a user that posts a comment,
every comment must have a user.
So this user_id references,
and this is an integer right?
So integer int,
this is just a shorthand for that.
This references the users table, and
specifically inside of that table,
it references the user_id which is this,
this thing up here.
So this just happens that user_id here,
and user_id here,
they named the same thing,
they don't have to be right?
That's just saying here in comments,
this is gonna be called user_id.
But inside of the users table,
we're referencing the user_id.
So for example, if this was just
called ID up here, not user_id,
you would put ID right there.
Now it's useful to call
them the same thing,
we'll see why actually
little bit why that is.
But you don't have to right, you can call
them different things that's totally fine.
Same thing with a board_id every
comment is posted to a board, right?
So you can't just post a comment down
into the ether, if you're on Reddit,
you can't just post to no separate,
every post goes into a subreddit,
every comment must go on a board.
So that's where this board_id comes from.
And it also references board_id
from the boards table.
And then a comment which is text,
right, it's not a varchar.
So it's of 65,000 length or less, and
then a timestamp of when
you posted that comment.
Okay, so
let's talk about ON DELETE CASCADE.
I have a comment, right and let's say user
bit hold posted a comment to a board.
And then later user bit Holt goes and
deletes their account.
What should happen to those comments?
Because they were posted by user,
by default if you don't say anything.
So if I left off ON DELETE CASCADE, it
would just say, you can't delete this user
account until you delete all the comments
that they've deleted, right?
So I won't let you delete anything if
there has existing keys in another table,
that can be useful, right?
Maybe you wanna do some
special kind of cleanup.
And you do not wanna delete a user account
before you have deleted their comments.
This one I I'm saying ON DELETE CASCADE,
so whenever a user gets deleted,
go into the comments table and delete
all of the comments that they've made.
This just makes it really easy to cleanup,
all I have to do is delete a user account
and all those comments
just magically dissapear.
That's what ON DELETE CASCADE does.
And there's also ON DELETE SET NULL.
I think that's what it is,
yep right there, ON DELETE SET NULL.
What this will do,
it'll go through on delete
the username, it'll just set it to NULL.
And, that might be a good thing too,
if you wanna keep track of the comments,
even if a user deletes their account.
So, you kind of decide what
your desired behaviors.
And, the default action of not allowing
you to delete until you've deleted
yourself is called ON DELETE NO ACTION.
It just means throw an error if they try
to delete something from the users table
that exists in the comments table.